README.md, before:

# Barbershop SaaS Platform

Multi-Tenant Barbershop Management Platform built for zero-cost deployment on Vercel Serverless.

## Tech Stack

- **Runtime:** Node.js 22 (LTS) + TypeScript
- **Framework:** Fastify with Vercel Serverless adapter
- **Database:** PostgreSQL via Supabase with Prisma ORM
- **Cache/Rate Limiting:** Upstash Redis (HTTP/REST)
- **Testing:** Vitest + Supertest
- **Documentation:** Swagger (OpenAPI 3.0)

## Project Structure

```
shaving-project/
├── packages/
│   └── backend/           # Backend API
│       ├── api/           # Vercel serverless entrypoint
│       ├── prisma/        # Database schema and migrations
│       └── src/
│           ├── controllers/
│           ├── services/
│           ├── repositories/
│           ├── middleware/
│           ├── lib/       # Prisma, Redis clients
│           └── types/
├── docs/                  # Documentation
│   └── DEVELOPMENT.md     # Development progress tracking
├── package.json           # Root workspace
└── pnpm-workspace.yaml
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 22+
- pnpm 9+
- Supabase account (PostgreSQL)
- Upstash account (Redis)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd shaving-project

# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Copy environment variables
cp packages/backend/.env.example packages/backend/.env
# Edit .env with your credentials

# Generate Prisma client
pnpm db:generate

# Run database migrations
pnpm db:migrate

# Seed database with test data (optional but recommended)
pnpm db:seed

# Start development server
pnpm dev
```

### Environment Variables

See `packages/backend/.env.example` for all required variables:

- `DATABASE_URL` - Supabase pooler connection (port 6543)
- `DIRECT_URL` - Direct connection for migrations
- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL` - Redis REST URL
- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN` - Redis REST token
- `JWT_SECRET` - JWT signing secret (min 32 chars)
- `CRON_SECRET` - Secret for cron endpoint protection

## Database Seeding

For local development, you can populate the database with test data:

```bash
pnpm db:seed
```

This creates:
- **Barbershop:** `barbearia-teste` (slug for tenant header)
- **Admin User:** `admin@barbearia-teste.com` / `senha123`
- **Barber User:** `barber@barbearia-teste.com` / `senha123`
- **Test Client:** João Silva
- **Services:** Corte de Cabelo, Barba, Corte + Barba

The script is idempotent and safe to run multiple times.

## Development

```bash
# Start development server
pnpm dev

# Run tests
pnpm test

# Run tests with coverage
pnpm test:coverage

# Lint code
pnpm lint

# Open Prisma Studio
pnpm db:studio
```

## API Documentation

When the server is running, access Swagger UI at:

```
http://localhost:3000/docs
```

The Swagger UI is publicly accessible and does not require tenant authentication.

## Security Features

- **Row Level Security (RLS):** Enabled on all database tables for defense-in-depth tenant isolation
- **Rate Limiting:** Dual-layer protection (IP + Tenant) using Upstash Redis
- **Tenant Validation:** All requests validated against active barbershops
- **Tenant Caching:** Redis cache reduces database queries (5-minute TTL)

## Multi-Tenant Architecture

All requests (except public endpoints) require the `x-tenant-slug` header:

```bash
curl -H "x-tenant-slug: my-barbershop" http://localhost:3000/api/...
```

The middleware validates the tenant slug, caches lookups in Redis (5-minute TTL), and injects `tenantId` and `tenantSlug` into the request context.

### Rate Limiting

The API implements two-layer rate limiting:
- **IP-based:** 100 requests per 60 seconds
- **Tenant-based:** 1000 requests per 60 seconds

Rate limit headers are included in all responses:
- `X-RateLimit-Limit` - Maximum requests allowed
- `X-RateLimit-Remaining` - Remaining requests in window
- `X-RateLimit-Reset` - Reset time (ISO 8601)

### Public Endpoints

- `GET /health` - Health check (no tenant/rate limit)
- `GET /docs` - Swagger UI (no tenant/rate limit)
- `GET /` - API info (no tenant/rate limit)

## Deployment

### Vercel

```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm i -g vercel

# Deploy
cd packages/backend
vercel
```

Configure environment variables in Vercel dashboard.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat: Implement global preSerialization hook for API responses
- Added a global preSerialization hook to convert Prisma Decimal fields to `number` and Date fields to ISO strings in `/api` responses, ensuring compliance with documented schemas.
- Updated README.md to reflect changes in response formats for monetary and percentage fields.
- Created integration tests to validate serialization behavior for API responses.
- Updated CHANGELOG.md and DEVELOPMENT.md to document the serialization fix and its implications.

README.md, after:

# Barbershop SaaS Platform

Multi-Tenant Barbershop Management Platform built for zero-cost deployment on Vercel Serverless.

## Tech Stack

- **Runtime:** Node.js 22 (LTS) + TypeScript
- **Framework:** Fastify with Vercel Serverless adapter
- **Database:** PostgreSQL via Supabase with Prisma ORM
- **Cache/Rate Limiting:** Upstash Redis (HTTP/REST)
- **Testing:** Vitest + Supertest
- **Documentation:** Swagger (OpenAPI 3.0)

## Project Structure

```
shaving-project/
├── packages/
│   └── backend/           # Backend API
│       ├── api/           # Vercel serverless entrypoint
│       ├── prisma/        # Database schema and migrations
│       └── src/
│           ├── controllers/
│           ├── services/
│           ├── repositories/
│           ├── middleware/
│           ├── lib/       # Prisma, Redis clients
│           └── types/
├── docs/                  # Documentation
│   └── DEVELOPMENT.md     # Development progress tracking
├── package.json           # Root workspace
└── pnpm-workspace.yaml
```

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 22+
- pnpm 9+
- Supabase account (PostgreSQL)
- Upstash account (Redis)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd shaving-project

# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Copy environment variables
cp packages/backend/.env.example packages/backend/.env
# Edit .env with your credentials

# Generate Prisma client
pnpm db:generate

# Run database migrations
pnpm db:migrate

# Seed database with test data (optional but recommended)
pnpm db:seed

# Start development server
pnpm dev
```

### Environment Variables

See `packages/backend/.env.example` for all required variables:

- `DATABASE_URL` - Supabase pooler connection (port 6543)
- `DIRECT_URL` - Direct connection for migrations
- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL` - Redis REST URL
- `UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN` - Redis REST token
- `JWT_SECRET` - JWT signing secret (min 32 chars)
- `CRON_SECRET` - Secret for cron endpoint protection

## Database Seeding

For local development, you can populate the database with test data:

```bash
pnpm db:seed
```

This creates:
- **Barbershop:** `barbearia-teste` (slug for tenant header)
- **Admin User:** `admin@barbearia-teste.com` / `senha123`
- **Barber User:** `barber@barbearia-teste.com` / `senha123`
- **Test Client:** João Silva
- **Services:** Corte de Cabelo, Barba, Corte + Barba

The script is idempotent and safe to run multiple times.

## Development

```bash
# Start development server
pnpm dev

# Run tests
pnpm test

# Run tests with coverage
pnpm test:coverage

# Lint code
pnpm lint

# Open Prisma Studio
pnpm db:studio
```

## API Documentation

When the server is running, access Swagger UI at:

```
http://localhost:3000/docs
```

The Swagger UI is publicly accessible and does not require tenant authentication.

Monetary/percentage fields stored as Prisma Decimal are serialized as `number` (and `Date` as ISO strings) in `/api` responses to match the documented schemas.

## Security Features

- **Row Level Security (RLS):** Enabled on all database tables for defense-in-depth tenant isolation
- **Rate Limiting:** Dual-layer protection (IP + Tenant) using Upstash Redis
- **Tenant Validation:** All requests validated against active barbershops
- **Tenant Caching:** Redis cache reduces database queries (5-minute TTL)

## Multi-Tenant Architecture

All requests (except public endpoints) require the `x-tenant-slug` header:

```bash
curl -H "x-tenant-slug: my-barbershop" http://localhost:3000/api/...
```

The middleware validates the tenant slug, caches lookups in Redis (5-minute TTL), and injects `tenantId` and `tenantSlug` into the request context.

### Rate Limiting

The API implements two-layer rate limiting:
- **IP-based:** 100 requests per 60 seconds
- **Tenant-based:** 1000 requests per 60 seconds

Rate limit headers are included in all responses:
- `X-RateLimit-Limit` - Maximum requests allowed
- `X-RateLimit-Remaining` - Remaining requests in window
- `X-RateLimit-Reset` - Reset time (ISO 8601)

### Public Endpoints

- `GET /health` - Health check (no tenant/rate limit)
- `GET /docs` - Swagger UI (no tenant/rate limit)
- `GET /` - API info (no tenant/rate limit)

## Deployment

### Vercel

```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm i -g vercel

# Deploy
cd packages/backend
vercel
```

Configure environment variables in Vercel dashboard.

## License

MIT
